The Patronus dissolved into thin air, leaving Fleur’s family peering in
astonishment at the place where it had vanished.
“We shouldn’t be here,” said Lupin at once. “Harry — I’m sorry — I’ll
explain another time —”
He seized Tonks’s wrist and pulled her away; they reached the fence,
climbed over it, and vanished from sight. Mrs. Weasley looked bewildered.
“The Minister — but why — ? I don’t understand —”
But there was no time to discuss the matter; a second later, Mr. Weasley
had appeared out of thin air at the gate, accompanied by Rufus Scrimgeour,
instantly recognizable by his mane of grizzled hair.
The two newcomers marched across the yard toward the garden and the
lantern-lit table, where everybody sat in silence, watching them draw closer.
As Scrimgeour came within range of the lantern light, Harry saw that he
looked much older than the last time they had met, scraggy and grim.
“Sorry to intrude,” said Scrimgeour, as he limped to a halt before the table.
“Especially as I can see that I am gate-crashing a party.”
His eyes lingered for a moment on the giant Snitch cake.
“Many happy returns.”
“Thanks,” said Harry.
“I require a private word with you,” Scrimgeour went on. “Also with Mr.
Ronald Weasley and Miss Hermione Granger.”
“Us?” said Ron, sounding surprised. “Why us?”
“I shall tell you that when we are somewhere more private,” said
Scrimgeour. “Is there such a place?” he demanded of Mr. Weasley.
“Yes, of course,” said Mr. Weasley, who looked nervous. “The, er, sitting
room, why don’t you use that?”
“You can lead the way,” Scrimgeour said to Ron. “There will be no need
for you to accompany us, Arthur.”
Harry saw Mr. Weasley exchange a worried look with Mrs. Weasley as he,
Ron, and Hermione stood up. As they led the way back to the house in
silence, Harry knew that the other two were thinking the same as he was:
Scrimgeour must, somehow, have learned that the three of them were
planning to drop out of Hogwarts.
Scrimgeour did not speak as they all passed through the messy kitchen and
into the Burrow’s sitting room. Although the garden had been full of soft
golden evening light, it was already dark in here: Harry flicked his wand at
the oil lamps as he entered and they illuminated the shabby but cozy room.
Scrimgeour sat himself in the sagging armchair that Mr. Weasley normally
occupied, leaving Harry, Ron, and Hermione to squeeze side by side onto the
sofa. Once they had done so, Scrimgeour spoke.
“I have some questions for the three of you, and I think it will be best if we
do it individually. If you two” — he pointed at Harry and Hermione — “can
wait upstairs, I will start with Ronald.”
“We’re not going anywhere,” said Harry, while Hermione nodded
vigorously. “You can speak to us together, or not at all.”
Scrimgeour gave Harry a cold, appraising look. Harry had the impression
that the Minister was wondering whether it was worthwhile opening
hostilities this early.
“Very well then, together,” he said, shrugging. He cleared his throat. “I am
here, as I’m sure you know, because of Albus Dumbledore’s will.”
Harry, Ron, and Hermione looked at one another.
“A surprise, apparently! You were not aware then that Dumbledore had left
you anything?”
“A-all of us?” said Ron. “Me and Hermione too?”
“Yes, all of —”
But Harry interrupted.
“Dumbledore died over a month ago. Why has it taken this long to give us
what he left us?”
“Isn’t it obvious?” said Hermione, before Scrimgeour could answer. “They
wanted to examine whatever he’s left us. You had no right to do that!” she
said, and her voice trembled slightly.
“I had every right,” said Scrimgeour dismissively. “The Decree for
Justifiable Confiscation gives the Ministry the power to confiscate the
contents of a will —”
“That law was created to stop wizards passing on Dark artifacts,” said
Hermione, “and the Ministry is supposed to have powerful evidence that the
deceased’s possessions are illegal before seizing them! Are you telling me
that you thought Dumbledore was trying to pass us something cursed?”
“Are you planning to follow a career in Magical Law, Miss Granger?”
asked Scrimgeour.
“No, I’m not,” retorted Hermione. “I’m hoping to do some good in the
world!”
Ron laughed. Scrimgeour’s eyes flickered toward him and away again as
Harry spoke.
“So why have you decided to let us have our things now? Can’t think of a
pretext to keep them?”
“No, it’ll be because the thirty-one days are up,” said Hermione at once.
“They can’t keep the objects longer than that unless they can prove they’re
dangerous. Right?”
“Would you say you were close to Dumbledore, Ronald?” asked
Scrimgeour, ignoring Hermione. Ron looked startled.
“Me? Not — not really . . . It was always Harry who . . .”
Ron looked around at Harry and Hermione, to see Hermione giving him a
stop-talking-now! sort of look, but the damage was done: Scrimgeour looked
as though he had heard exactly what he had expected, and wanted, to hear. He
swooped like a bird of prey upon Ron’s answer.
“If you were not very close to Dumbledore, how do you account for the
fact that he remembered you in his will? He made exceptionally few personal
bequests. The vast majority of his possessions — his private library, his
magical instruments, and other personal effects — were left to Hogwarts.
Why do you think you were singled out?”
“I . . . dunno,” said Ron. “I . . . when I say we weren’t close . . . I mean, I
think he liked me. . . .”
“You’re being modest, Ron,” said Hermione. “Dumbledore was very fond
of you.”
This was stretching the truth to breaking point; as far as Harry knew, Ron
and Dumbledore had never been alone together, and direct contact between
them had been negligible. However, Scrimgeour did not seem to be listening.
He put his hand inside his cloak and drew out a drawstring pouch much larger
than the one Hagrid had given Harry. From it, he removed a scroll of
parchment which he unrolled and read aloud.
“‘The Last Will and Testament of Albus Percival Wulfric Brian
Dumbledore’ . . . Yes, here we are . . . ‘To Ronald Bilius Weasley, I leave my
Deluminator, in the hope that he will remember me when he uses it.’”
Scrimgeour took from the bag an object that Harry had seen before: It
looked something like a silver cigarette lighter, but it had, he knew, the power
to suck all light from a place, and restore it, with a simple click. Scrimgeour
leaned forward and passed the Deluminator to Ron, who took it and turned it
over in his fingers, looking stunned.
“That is a valuable object,” said Scrimgeour, watching Ron. “It may even
be unique. Certainly it is of Dumbledore’s own design. Why would he have
left you an item so rare?”
Ron shook his head, looking bewildered.
“Dumbledore must have taught thousands of students,” Scrimgeour
persevered. “Yet the only ones he remembered in his will are you three. Why
is that? To what use did he think you would put his Deluminator, Mr.
Weasley?”
“Put out lights, I s’pose,” mumbled Ron. “What else could I do with it?”
Evidently Scrimgeour had no suggestions. After squinting at Ron for a
moment or two, he turned back to Dumbledore’s will.
“‘To Miss Hermione Jean Granger, I leave my copy of The Tales of Beedle
the Bard, in the hope that she will find it entertaining and instructive.’”
Scrimgeour now pulled out of the bag a small book that looked as ancient
as the copy of Secrets of the Darkest Art upstairs. Its binding was stained and
peeling in places. Hermione took it from Scrimgeour without a word. She
held the book in her lap and gazed at it. Harry saw that the title was in runes;
he had never learned to read them. As he looked, a tear splashed onto the
embossed symbols.
“Why do you think Dumbledore left you that book, Miss Granger?” asked
Scrimgeour.
“He . . . he knew I liked books,” said Hermione in a thick voice, mopping
her eyes with her sleeve.
“But why that particular book?”
“I don’t know. He must have thought I’d enjoy it.”
“Did you ever discuss codes, or any means of passing secret messages,
with Dumbledore?”
“No, I didn’t,” said Hermione, still wiping her eyes on her sleeve. “And if
the Ministry hasn’t found any hidden codes in this book in thirty-one days, I
doubt that I will.”
She suppressed a sob. They were wedged together so tightly that Ron had
difficulty extracting his arm to put it around Hermione’s shoulders.
Scrimgeour turned back to the will.
“‘To Harry James Potter,’” he read, and Harry’s insides contracted with a
sudden excitement, “‘I leave the Snitch he caught in his first Quidditch match
at Hogwarts, as a reminder of the rewards of perseverance and skill.’”
As Scrimgeour pulled out the tiny, walnut-sized golden ball, its silver
wings fluttered rather feebly, and Harry could not help feeling a definite sense
of anticlimax.
“Why did Dumbledore leave you this Snitch?” asked Scrimgeour.
“No idea,” said Harry. “For the reasons you just read out, I suppose . . . to
remind me what you can get if you . . . persevere and whatever it was.”
“You think this a mere symbolic keepsake, then?”
“I suppose so,” said Harry. “What else could it be?”
“I’m asking the questions,” said Scrimgeour, shifting his chair a little closer
to the sofa. Dusk was really falling outside now; the marquee beyond the
windows towered ghostly white over the hedge.
“I notice that your birthday cake is in the shape of a Snitch,” Scrimgeour
said to Harry. “Why is that?”
Hermione laughed derisively.
“Oh, it can’t be a reference to the fact Harry’s a great Seeker, that’s way too
obvious,” she said. “There must be a secret message from Dumbledore hidden
in the icing!”
“I don’t think there’s anything hidden in the icing,” said Scrimgeour, “but a
Snitch would be a very good hiding place for a small object. You know why,
I’m sure?”
Harry shrugged. Hermione, however, answered: Harry thought that
answering questions correctly was such a deeply ingrained habit she could not
suppress the urge.
“Because Snitches have flesh memories,” she said.
“What?” said Harry and Ron together; both considered Hermione’s
Quidditch knowledge negligible.
“Correct,” said Scrimgeour. “A Snitch is not touched by bare skin before it
is released, not even by the maker, who wears gloves. It carries an
enchantment by which it can identify the first human to lay hands upon it, in
case of a disputed capture. This Snitch” — he held up the tiny golden ball —
“will remember your touch, Potter. It occurs to me that Dumbledore, who had
prodigious magical skill, whatever his other faults, might have enchanted this
Snitch so that it will open only for you.”
Harry’s heart was beating rather fast. He was sure that Scrimgeour was
right. How could he avoid taking the Snitch with his bare hand in front of the
Minister?
“You don’t say anything,” said Scrimgeour. “Perhaps you already know
what the Snitch contains?”
“No,” said Harry, still wondering how he could appear to touch the Snitch
without really doing so. If only he knew Legilimency, really knew it, and
could read Hermione’s mind; he could practically hear her brain whirring
beside him.
“Take it,” said Scrimgeour quietly.
Harry met the Minister’s yellow eyes and knew he had no option but to
obey. He held out his hand, and Scrimgeour leaned forward again and placed
the Snitch, slowly and deliberately, into Harry’s palm.
Nothing happened. As Harry’s fingers closed around the Snitch, its tired
wings fluttered and were still. Scrimgeour, Ron, and Hermione continued to
gaze avidly at the now partially concealed ball, as if still hoping it might
transform in some way.
“That was dramatic,” said Harry coolly. Both Ron and Hermione laughed.
“That’s all, then, is it?” asked Hermione, making to prise herself off the
sofa.
“Not quite,” said Scrimgeour, who looked bad-tempered now.
“Dumbledore left you a second bequest, Potter.”
“What is it?” asked Harry, excitement rekindling.
Scrimgeour did not bother to read from the will this time.
“The sword of Godric Gryffindor,” he said.
Hermione and Ron both stiffened. Harry looked around for a sign of the
ruby-encrusted hilt, but Scrimgeour did not pull the sword from the leather
pouch, which in any case looked much too small to contain it.
“So where is it?” Harry asked suspiciously.
“Unfortunately,” said Scrimgeour, “that sword was not Dumbledore’s to
give away. The sword of Godric Gryffindor is an important historical artifact,
and as such, belongs —”
“It belongs to Harry!” said Hermione hotly. “It chose him, he was the one
who found it, it came to him out of the Sorting Hat —”
“According to reliable historical sources, the sword may present itself to
any worthy Gryffindor,” said Scrimgeour. “That does not make it the
exclusive property of Mr. Potter, whatever Dumbledore may have decided.”
Scrimgeour scratched his badly shaven cheek, scrutinizing Harry. “Why do
you think — ?”
“— Dumbledore wanted to give me the sword?” said Harry, struggling to
keep his temper. “Maybe he thought it would look nice on my wall.”
“This is not a joke, Potter!” growled Scrimgeour. “Was it because
Dumbledore believed that only the sword of Godric Gryffindor could defeat
the Heir of Slytherin? Did he wish to give you that sword, Potter, because he
believed, as do many, that you are the one destined to destroy He-Who-Must-
Not-Be-Named?”
“Interesting theory,” said Harry. “Has anyone ever tried sticking a sword in
Voldemort? Maybe the Ministry should put some people onto that, instead of
wasting their time stripping down Deluminators or covering up breakouts
from Azkaban. So is this what you’ve been doing, Minister, shut up in your
office, trying to break open a Snitch? People are dying — I was nearly one of
them — Voldemort chased me across three counties, he killed Mad-Eye
Moody, but there’s been no word about any of that from the Ministry, has
there? And you still expect us to cooperate with you!”
“You go too far!” shouted Scrimgeour, standing up; Harry jumped to his
feet too. Scrimgeour limped toward Harry and jabbed him hard in the chest
with the point of his wand: It singed a hole in Harry’s T-shirt like a lit
cigarette.
“Oi!” said Ron, jumping up and raising his own wand, but Harry said,
“No! D’you want to give him an excuse to arrest us?”
“Remembered you’re not at school, have you?” said Scrimgeour, breathing
hard into Harry’s face. “Remembered that I am not Dumbledore, who forgave
your insolence and insubordination? You may wear that scar like a crown,
Potter, but it is not up to a seventeen-year-old boy to tell me how to do my
job! It’s time you learned some respect!”
“It’s time you earned it,” said Harry.
The floor trembled; there was a sound of running footsteps, then the door to
the sitting room burst open and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley ran in.
“We — we thought we heard —” began Mr. Weasley, looking thoroughly
alarmed at the sight of Harry and the Minister virtually nose to nose.
“— raised voices,” panted Mrs. Weasley.
Scrimgeour took a couple of steps back from Harry, glancing at the hole he
had made in Harry’s T-shirt. He seemed to regret his loss of temper.
“It — it was nothing,” he growled. “I . . . regret your attitude,” he said,
looking Harry full in the face once more. “You seem to think that the Ministry
does not desire what you — what Dumbledore — desired. We ought to be
working together.”
“I don’t like your methods, Minister,” said Harry. “Remember?”
For the second time, he raised his right fist and displayed to Scrimgeour the
scars that still showed white on the back of it, spelling I must not tell lies.
Scrimgeour’s expression hardened. He turned away without another word and
limped from the room. Mrs. Weasley hurried after him; Harry heard her stop
at the back door. After a minute or so she called, “He’s gone!”
“What did he want?” Mr. Weasley asked, looking around at Harry, Ron,
and Hermione as Mrs. Weasley came hurrying back to them.
“To give us what Dumbledore left us,” said Harry. “They’ve only just
released the contents of his will.”
Outside in the garden, over the dinner tables, the three objects Scrimgeour
had given them were passed from hand to hand. Everyone exclaimed over the
Deluminator and The Tales of Beedle the Bard and lamented the fact that
Scrimgeour had refused to pass on the sword, but none of them could offer
any suggestion as to why Dumbledore would have left Harry an old Snitch.
As Mr. Weasley examined the Deluminator for the third or fourth time, Mrs.
Weasley said tentatively, “Harry, dear, everyone’s awfully hungry, we didn’t
like to start without you. . . . Shall I serve dinner now?”
They all ate rather hurriedly and then, after a hasty chorus of “Happy
Birthday” and much gulping of cake, the party broke up. Hagrid, who was
invited to the wedding the following day, but was far too bulky to sleep in the
overstretched Burrow, left to set up a tent for himself in a neighboring field.
“Meet us upstairs,” Harry whispered to Hermione, while they helped Mrs.
Weasley restore the garden to its normal state. “After everyone’s gone to
bed.”
Up in the attic room, Ron examined his Deluminator, and Harry filled
Hagrid’s mokeskin purse, not with gold, but with those items he most prized,
apparently worthless though some of them were: the Marauder’s Map, the
shard of Sirius’s enchanted mirror, and R.A.B.’s locket. He pulled the strings
tight and slipped the purse around his neck, then sat holding the old Snitch
and watching its wings flutter feebly. At last, Hermione tapped on the door
and tiptoed inside.
“Muffliato,” she whispered, waving her wand in the direction of the stairs.
“Thought you didn’t approve of that spell?” said Ron.
“Times change,” said Hermione. “Now, show us that Deluminator.”
Ron obliged at once. Holding it up in front of him, he clicked it. The
solitary lamp they had lit went out at once.
“The thing is,” whispered Hermione through the dark, “we could have
achieved that with Peruvian Instant Darkness Powder.”
There was a small click, and the ball of light from the lamp flew back to the
ceiling and illuminated them all once more.
“Still, it’s cool,” said Ron, a little defensively. “And from what they said,
Dumbledore invented it himself!”
“I know, but surely he wouldn’t have singled you out in his will just to help
us turn out the lights!”
